# HELL INTERFACING ESSENTIAL SOFTWARE

Here we fill out the software we use and recommend to other HELL INTERACING users (and possibly beyond). This list will attempt to strike a balance between proprietary software and free software, there's no favoritism at either end (but we absolutely despise abhorrently bloated software and stuff you have to jump through countless hoops in order to get working without sacrificing a child in the process to the FAGMAN overlords).

## Operating Systems

### Windows 8
Hot take, but once you strip Windows 8.1 out of its abhorrent design choices and remove all of the bloat, it's a great OS. EOL ends in 2023 so it's still going despite being on the brink of death. There's no lack of driver update issues like with Windows 7 in terms of modern devices and GPUs so it'd be great for gaymen. Only download [official Windows 8.1 ISOs](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/software-download/windows8ISO) from the Microsoft site and then active with an activator of your choice (such as a clean version of KMS).

### Windows 10 (Modified)
Underneath the TONS and TONS of Bill Gates turbo AIDS, there's a perfectly capable OS in here. You have to jump through quite a bit of hoops to get this thing clean for personal use, but once you do so, there isn't any debate - it's a good OS. Like earlier. Only download [official ISOs](https://www.microsoft.com/de-de/software-download/windows10) from the Microsoft site instead of some Indian "Super Tech 64" Blogspot sites and activate with HWID. Note that in order to get the ISO download on the site instead of the Media Creation Tool, you'll have to change you're browser's User-Agent to either Linux or Mac OS. Next up you'll want to use something like Sycnex's [Windows10Debloater](https://github.com/Sycnex/Windows10Debloater) and run either the commandline PowerShell script or the GUI version.

### Windows 10 AME
...alternatively you can instead get a version of Windows 10 named [Ameliorated](https://ameliorated.info/). This modified installer of Windows 10 removes a ton of the pre-installed bloatware, minimizes install time, eliminates things such as Windows Update and Cortana and removes many of the telemetry that Microsoft added. The changelist is massive and it is recommended to read up on AME yourself, or better yet, test drive it in a VM or a computer you might have lying around doing nothing.

### GNU/Linux
You knew this was coming. If you really, really love tinkering with your computer and want to immerse yourself in a new environment where knowledge of the inner workings of your OS and all installed software is pretty much necessary, GNU/Linux might be for you. It's a vast world of [distributions](https://distrowatch.com/) which ranges from noob-friendly Windows replacements like [Linux Mint](https://linuxmint.com/) to l33t h4x0r + cunny-connoisseur distro like [Arch Linux](https://archlinux.org/). Speaking of Arch, appreciate the [ArchWiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/) with all your power, because it is possibly one of the most comprehensive and well-maintained documentations in everything tech, going beyond just Arch but every aspect of GNU/Linux as well. Grab an ISO of whichever distro interests you and fire it up in a VM or install it on a Live USB and test drive it on your computer without having to install anything. Further info on GNU/Linux will be bellow.

## Package Managers
An advantage that has been enjoyed by Mac OS X and GNU/Linux users for years has been the concept of a package manager. Bluntly put, it's a piece of software that lets you connect to a central repository where other software is hosted and with it you can install applications within your commandline without the need to look for .exe's or any installer binaries yourself. A package manager can also batch update your installed software with a single command which is a selling point alone. The problem is that these repositories host mostly open-source software only and very rarely would you find closed-source, proprietary programs (but then again, you might be better off without them if there's a good open-source alternative instead).

### Chocolatey
[Choco](https://chocolatey.org/) is probably the largest package manager on Windows so far. It's super simple to install and figure out how to use it, especially if you have former package manager knowledge. On the website there is a ["search packages" function](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages) which will let you scour the entire repo and copy the install commands to paste into your commandline. The community is pretty large and the project seems to be in constant support, perhaps moreso than even Microsoft's own package manager winget.

### winget
In response to the surge in popularity that package managers have been receiving over the past couple of years, Microsoft responded with winget. It is included by default with Windows 11 and also available through Windows 10's 1709 version. It supposedly does what it says on the tin, but I personally have not used it and cannot speak for its quality especially compared to Chocolatey. Similarly to Choco's package repository search tool, there's also [winget.run](https://winget.run/) to browse the winget repo and conveniently copy commands.